What to include in resume:

What to not include in the resume:

https://www.weber.edu/east/faq.html


Use JobScan


Smart Start Guide: Very useful tool
Maybe not a perfect match for student resume, but good tools in it
There are some resume guides online, but nothing as step by step as this one.

1 Page resume is recommended: 1-2 Page is **ok**, but usually only after a couple years of industry experience. Always try to keep it to 1 page. 

5 Main Sections:
1. Contact info: Name (bold 14-16 pt font), city and state, cell/home phone number have an active and professional voicemail with your name, professional email address, webpage/LinkedIn URL
2. Summary Statement/Career Profile (several names): Job Title, Relevant Sklls, Qualifictions, Years of Eperience, Degrees, Certifcations, Licences, Language Skills, Soft Skills, Leadership Style, Accomplishments. Make it short and concise, only a few sentences long. Tailor each resume for each employer. 
3. Skills: List of 9-15 targeted skills that are important for the job. Make sure the area is readable, use columns and list skills in order of importance. Technical skill are important, also mention your soft skills. 2-3 columns, nothing crazy so software can read it better. Be specific as possible, 1-3 words if possible. Don't describe it, just list it. Skill level is also unimportant.
4. Education and Training: If they focus a lot on education, include any and everything that you can apply to this. Don't worry about the high school diploma. List any Certifcations or specialized training, workshops, etc. If there isn't a high education focus, just include a mix of education and actual training. Format it with Major First, then college. City and State, estimated graduation date, GPA if above 3.5. Ask yourself whats more appealing: Experience or Educational background. Add a relevant courses/projects section here, or in its own area. Judgement call on your end. 
5. Experience: List job title and employer first. If there aren't as many transferable skils, don't worry much about the experience. Just have Dates, Employer, Title. Thats the minimum. 
Swap Experience and Education due to being a student, more professional people will have experience first.
Include other section if its relevant to the employer AND has enough space to be included while staying within the one page/two page limits. FOCUS ON ONE PAGE, 2 PAGES *HAS* TO BE JUSTIFIED.


Include School and Personal Projects